I am looking at US domestic flight data from Jan 2023 thru Nov 2025 for 360 airports 
across the US and US territories.

Just out of curiosity, I first found which airports have the highest rate of delayed
departures and arrivals.
(Delayed means more than 15 minutes past scheduled departure/arrival time)

I sorted 360 airports by the number of departures and arrivals, and only kept airports within the
top half, so I filtered out airports with fewer flights. 
    
Airports with the highest rate of departure delays:
    1. Aspen, CO: Aspen Pitkin County Sardy Field, 29.92%
    2. Aguadilla, PR: Rafael Hernandez, 27.61%
    3. Fort Lauderdale, FL: Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International, 27.05%

Airports with the highest rate of arrival delays: 
    1. Aguadilla, PR: Rafael Hernandez, 32.02%
    2. Sanford, FL: Orlando Sanford International, 29.92%
    3. Aspen, CO: Aspen Pitkin County Sardy Field, 28.65%

Airports with a higher rate of departure delays tend to have a higher rate of arrival delays as well. 

(Refer to depArrDelayRates.png)

However, it is still too early to claim these airports are causing delays within the flight network.
For example, it could be possible that the airplane from the previous flight heading into Aspen, CO 
arrived late so the subsequent flight heading out of Aspen was also delayed. 



For the next part of my analysis, I looked at what I will call 'delay propagation.' I hypothesized that delays
tend to propagate, so if a flight arrives late, its next departure will be late as well. 

Turns out, when a plane arrives late, 52% of the time that plane's next departure is delayed as well. 

I calculated this by sorting my flight data by tail number (plane's registration number, kind of like a 
license plate for a plane) and then sorting that plane's flights in sequential order by departure time. 
For each plane, I counted the instances of the previous flight arriving late and the current flight 
departing late, divided by the plane's total number of departures, and found the 52% number. 

I also looked at which airports are the source of delays in a similar way. Just like above, I sorted my dataset by 
tail number and then sorted that plane's flights in sequential order. I then found instances where the 
previous flight arrived on time, but the current flight departed late, and I counted this as an instance of 
sourceDelay. Lastly, I calculated which airports have the highest rate of sourceDelays, and it paints a 
different ranking than before. 

Airports with the highest rate of sourceDelays: 
    1. Baltimore, MD: Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall, 14.87%
    2. Miami, FL: Miami International, 14.06%
    3. Dallas/Fort Worth, TX: Dallas/Fort Worth International, 13.83%

(In case the wording was confusing, this means 14.87% of all domestic flights departing from Baltimore was 
delayed because of some cause at Baltimore, and so on)

For reference, Aspen, CO (#1 in highest rate of departure delays) was #17 out of 180 here, 
Aguadilla, PR (#2 in highest rate of departure delays) was #22 out of 180 here, and
Fore Lauderdale, FL (#3 in highest rate of departure delays) was #4 out of 180. 

